Let's start with our development process
and this is for the angular front end.
The first thing that we'll do
is we'll create a free developer account
at okta.com,
then we'll add an openID Connect client application
in Okta.
Next we'll set up our app configuration
for openID Connect,
we'll install the Okta SDK dependencies,
then we'll integrate the Okta Sign-In Widget.
Next we'll develop the login status component
for log-in /log-out buttons,
and finally, we'll update our App Module configs
to connect the routes.
All right, step one is creating a free developer account
at okta.com.
This is very straightforward.
You simply visit Okta's website,
sign up for a free account,
and then check your email
to verify the account.
And also remember this is a free developer account.
There's no credit card required
and it supports up to 1000 users.
So that's more than enough users
for you to get your e-commerce application up and running.
So in Step two,
we'll add the OpenID Connect client app in Okta.
So in our Okta Developer Account
we'll create a new application,
we'll select the option for Single-Page application.
So this is for angular react.
Any of the modern JavaScript front ends.
Then I'll get into all the other configuration details
later in the video
but this is kind of the basic approach
for getting things set up.
In Step three, we'll set up our app configuration
for OpenID Connect.
So to connect with Okta,
we need to provide some configs.
So we need to provide the clientId and the issuer.
This information is available
on the Okta application details screen.
So here we have the client credentials
that's the client ID.
So you'll see this identify here.
This is a public identifier of the client app
and we'll need this information
and use this in our angler application.
And then for issuer, we'll actually make use
of our general settings, our actual Okta domain.
The Okta domain is a unique domain
that's set up for your specific developer account.
This is the year of the your application will use
for tokens.
All right, so using the information from the previous slide
we can set up this file.
My app config.ts, will set up this Chasen structure.
So for client ID,
we'll give the public identifier of the client app
information from that previous slide.
And then also for issuer, this is the URL
that we're going to use when authorizing
with the Okta authorization server.
So again its our Okta domain/oauth2/default
and for the redirect URL,
this the actual callback.
So once the user logs in successfully,
then Okta will send them to this given end point.
So in our application
it's localhost:4200/login/callback.
And I'll show you more coding later
that actually tie these items together.
And then here we have scopes.
So when OpenID Connects scopes provide access
to information about a user such as their name,
phone number, email, department, so on.
So the scope has a set of user attributes
known as claims.
So open ID is required for authentication requests,
profile has a user's first name,
last name, phone number, et cetera.
And of course, email contains the user's email address.
All right, so moving ahead to step four
we need to install the Okta SDK dependencies.
We'll actually use two Okta SDK dependencies.
We'll use the Okta Sign-In Widget
and we'll also use the Okta Anglular SDK.
So the Okta Sign-In Widget is a JavaScript library
for application login.
You don't have to create any of the HTML.
We simply integrate this widget into our application
and it's also customizable.
You can use your own logo, field names,
custom fields and so on.
So you can see this little screenshot here,
I actually have the love to code logo there.
So it's very easy to customize this.
All right, so here's a screenshot of the application
and you saw this in the demo.
Basically, we actually just dropped in
the Okta Sign-In Widget.
So we have our regular application
and we simply plug in the Okta Sign-In widget.
So this widget, it comes out of the box,
username, password.
It'll do all the authentication for us and so on.
We can customize it with our logo and so forth.
Also the Okta Angluler SDK.
So provides integration with the Angular Router
for authentication and authorization.
Some of the core features including login/log out from Okta,
using the OAuth 2.0 API.
We can also use it to retrieve user information
and determine their authentication status.
And you saw an example in the demo
where we could display the user's name
in our actual application
and we'll see how to do that here too.
And there's also some additional features
like we can add protect the routes
that require authentication
and also subscribe to changes in authentication state.
And we'll also add functionality for adding protected routes
in our given application.
All right, so the real nitty gritty here
is for us installing the Okta SDK dependencies
you simply run this npm install command.
So npm install @Okta/Okta-signin-widget
and then also npm install @Okta/Okta-angular
and then we'll install those two dependencies
and then we're ready to go.